For this second lesson on the chapter for
inheritance, we're going
to look at another example of inheriting
from a base class.
This time we're gonna work with employees
and managers.
So we're gonna call this employee.py.
So we'll begin by building the employee
class, which will be our base class.
So the first thing we do is create.
A constructor.
So, our fields are going to be Name and
Pay Rate.
Next we'll define a two string method.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Which will just display the name and the
employee's pay rate.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Then we'll define a pay method.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
And simply returns the pay rate, times the
hours
worked, which is the parameter or argument
for the method.
So very quickly let's build an employee
object.
We'll create an employee named John Jones,
his pay rate is $10 an hour.
And then we'll print out his pay for 40
weeks.
Let's do that, then.
Better statement than that.
Gross pay, and then we'll have to put that
into a string.
So we'll do that.
Okay, so let's just make sure the employee
class works before we move on.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
It's always something, let's take a look
here, do we have one too
many parenthesis perhaps, the problem was
we left off the trailing double quote.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Alright, let's try it again, so if you
want, there
should be self, that's very obvious,
that's a rookie mistake.
Let's try it again.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Alright so now, it's not wrong its
eone.pay.
So we're just taking a look to see if we
can find where the problem is.
I don't see a problem.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Let's try it again.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Right.
Now, I see where the problem is.
Every method has to have self as the first
argument.
So, one of the few languages, the only
language that I know of it, works
like that, so it's very easy for me to
make a mistake, but there we go.
So.
John Jones makes 10 dollars an hour and
for 40 hours in a
workweek he gets paid $400 for his pay so
that's correct let's move on.
So now we want to, derive a manager class
from the employee class
so to do that we write class manager and
then in parenthesis we write employee.
So the first step, is to create our
constructor.
A manager has the same fields as an
employee,
and they also have a new field, is
Salaried.
Which let's us know how to pay a manager.
So the first thing we do, is call the base
class constructor.
With the two arguments that it needs name
an pay rate.
And of course self.
Then we'll set a field named salaried
to the is salaried parameter from the
constructor.
You can tell by the name of the parameter
that it's a true false value.
That's not by default that's just a
convention.
After that we'll build a two string
method.
We'll create a return string which will
consist of a call to the base class
two string method and then concattonate to
that a call to the is salaried field.
Looks like so.
And then return the return string.
And
then last but not lease, we define pay,
the pay method for manager.
And here we write an if statement that
says
if the manager is salaried, return simply
their pay rate.
Else.
If they're not salaried, then they must be
hourly.
Then Return.
Self pay rate.
And that needs to be self above, too.
And we'll fix that before we move on.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Right up here, like so.
Okay.
So, we'll create a new manager object, m1
Jane Smith 1200 true.
We'll display m one's two string method
then we'll pay m one.
We're gonna borrow this print statement
and just change e one to m one.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Actually, let's take that out.
And let's create another Manager Object.
Use M two's two string method.
And we'll borrow the Gross Pay method
again.
So what should happen for M one, Jane
Smith, her pay rate should be 1,200.
That's her salary.
Then for Jim Brown because his salary is
set
to false, we should see $800 for gross
pay.
So let's save that.
Go back to our command prompt, clear the
screen, and then run the code.
So we have another little typo someplace.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Oh, it's salary desired.
Parameter and salaried is the field name,
very simple mistake.
Save that.
Clear the screen.
Try it again.
Almost made it.
Let's
take a look at our pay method for
managers.
That's where I thought the problem was.
Forgot to put self there.
Alright.
Let's try it again.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Gross pay none.
Interesting.
So let's see what happened with gross pay
none.
I left out the return, statement, or the
return part of the return statement.
Another simple little mistake,but again
I'll leave these in
because these are the kind of mistakes
you'll make.
Try it one more time.
We'll leave it like it is, and there's our
$800 gross pay for Jim Brown.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So to summarize.
A derive class can inherit fields and
methods from the base class,
as we see with how manager inherits name
and pay rate, and
then we can add fields that we need, such
as salaried, to the manager class.
Then we can also redefine, a method from
the base class,
to specialize it for the derived class,
which we did with pay.
So that wraps up this second lesson on
inheritance, and now
we're ready to move to the first exercise
for the chapter.